

                     Notes About CHKUSR Command


  The check user command was designed for two specific reasons:

    1) To ensure a AS/400 user id is defined in the FS-WMS user file.
    2) To ensure that a user id is not signed onto multiple terminals.

  These checks only need to be done for programs that do the following:

    1) Get the employee number from the user id.
    2) Start/Stop transactions.

  An example of such a program would be RF Putaway (RC200).


  CHKUSR Parameters:

    TYPE  - *IN    Check a user in

                   This option will first get the corresponding
                   employee number for the user id. If the employee
                   number returned is zero, then the program will send
                   back error CPF9898. The calling program should then
                   abort and not let the user go any further.

                   If an employee number is returned, the program
                   checks to make sure a data area has been created
                   for the employee number. The name of the date area
                   is EMPnnnnn, where nnnnn is the employee number with
                   leading zeros. If one doesn't exist, it will be
                   created.

                   Last of all the program tries to get an exclusive
                   lock on the data area. If no error occurs, the
                   the program returns and the calling program should
                   proceed as normal. If an error does occur, it is
                   assumed that another user, using the same user id
                   on a different terminal has already locked the
                   data area. In that case, error CPF9898 is returned
                   to the calling program. The calling program should
                   then abort and not let the user go any futher.

            *OUT   Check a user out

                   This option deallocates the exclusive lock that
                   was put on the corresponding employee data area.
                   If its not locked to begin with, no harm done.

            *VIEW  View locks for user data area

                   This option executes the WRKOBJLCK command for
                   the corresponding employee data area

    USER  - User id (optional)

            If left blank, the default is the user id that was
            used to signon to the terminal.


  How to use CHKUSR in a CL program:

    1) The CL program needs to contain the standard logic to forward
       messages.

    2) Put the following code at the beginning of the program.

             CHKUSR     TYPE(*IN)
             MONMSG     MSGID(CPF9898) EXEC(GOTO GETOUT)

       If an error occurs, CPF9898 is returned. The program jumps to
       the message forwarding logic and sends the CPF9898 message
       onto the user.

       Note: If the CL program uses the WORKOPT file, then the code
             must come after the creation and override of the member.
             Reason: If CHKUSR came first and had an error, the CL
             program would bomb when it tried to delete the override
             and clear the WORKOPT member.

    3) The following code should be put at the end of the program:

             CHKUSR     TYPE(*OUT)

    4) Always check the program by signing onto two terminals with
       the same user id and running the program on both terminals.
       The program should be prevented from running on one of the
       terminals.

